We can now identify the maximum value of each row but we still have to create that categorization,
let's do this right now.
So we created our Age-Group Max column right here and now we want to create another column
and in this column, we want to be able to define the content of this column depending on what we see
in that Age-Group Max column.
So basically we need a conditional column and to create such a conditional column, you can simply go
to the add column ribbon again and you can find exactly that function, conditional column
up here, let's press that and as you can see, you now have different options how you want to define that
conditional column.
Now the first thing you should define is the name,
let's name it category maybe, like this.
So this is it and
let me now
drag that down a little bit right here.
So we now have to define what should be displayed depending on a certain condition
in another column,
so in our case this would simply mean that if the Age-Group Max column, so the column we created not
equals but is equal or less or less than equal value,
well what value do we take?
We could take that Max, that four for instance right here, let's do that and let's call that baby for instance,
so this means if we have an Age-Group that is below or equal four, this will be displayed as a baby in the
new column.
So this is one condition but as we have more age groups, let's add another rule, like this.
So we again select the Age-Group Max and define that it should be less than or equal to
and now I don't want to define each Age-Group of course because we have that information for each age
group already,
so I want to kind of aggregate the information more
and this means I will not use the nine value right now but I would say that we could use the 14 as a second
condition,
so if it is less than or equal to 14, then it should be a child like this.
Let's add another rule,
so I will do it a little bit quicker now because I think you understood the basic concept,
so we say Age-Group Max is less than or equal to, let's maybe say 19 right here, then this is a teenager
like that,
then we add another rule and let's say we go until the age of 29,
so if the Age-Group Max is less than or equal to 29, this is a young adult, like this and one last
rule maybe,
so I'm doing the same thing that we just did
and let's define the Age-Group until 64
as adult. And now we defined all the rules,
the only thing we have to add is if otherwise,
so if none of this is true, then this should be a senior maybe, like this.
So we now defined all of the conditions and can now press OK and now we can see that we categorized
our data,
so we have the baby right here,
we have the child,
we also have the child for this condition and so on.
This looks good,
the only thing we should do immediately is we should format that rows as text because at the moment,
this is kind of a mixture, we don't want that,
so let's press right here and format it as text.
So we now created our second dimension table, the DIM-AgeGroup table,
the only thing that's missing is that FACT-Population table,
so the table in the middle, that kind of helps us to combine the two DIM table or the information of
that two DIM tables.
Let's create that FACT-Population table in the next video.